[IMP] Inventory: new doc about routes and push/pull rules (#693)
odoo/documentation-user: inventory/routes/concepts/use-routes.rst

respective boxes and conveyors bring them close to the shipping docks,
ready to be delivered to customers.

.. image:: media/pull-from-rule-example.png
   :align: center
   :alt: view of a generic pull from rule when preparing deliveries

How does it work?
=================

Pull Rules
----------

With *Pull Rules*, a demand for some products triggers procurements,
while *Push Rules* are triggered by products arriving in a specific
location.

We can say that *Pull Rules* are used to fulfill a customer
order, a sale order. So, Odoo generates a need at the *Customer
Location* for each product in the order. Because *Pull Rules*
are triggered by a need, Odoo looks for a *Pull Rule* defined on the
*Customer Location*. In our case, a delivery order pull rule that
transfers products from the *Shipping Area* to the *Customer
Location* is found, and a transfer between the two locations is created.

Then, Odoo finds another pull rule that tries to fulfill the need for
the *Shipping Area*: the *Packing Rule* that transfers products from
the *Packing Area* to the *Shipping Area*. And, finally, other rules
are triggered until a transfer between the *Stock* and the *Picking
Area* is created.

> .. note::
>       All theses transfers are pre-generated by Odoo, starting from the end and going backwards.
>       While working, the operator process these transfers in the opposite order: first the picking, 
>       then the packing, then the delivery order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   All theses transfers are pre-generated by Odoo, starting from the end and going backwards.
   While working, the operator process these transfers in the opposite order: first the picking, 
   then the packing, then the delivery order.
```

Push Rules
----------

On the other hand, *Push Rules* are much easier to understand. Instead
of pre-generating documents based on needs, they are live-triggered when
products arrive in a specific location. *Push Rules* basically say: "when a
product arrives at a specific location, move it to another location."

A simple example would be: when a product arrives in the *Receipt
Area*, move them to the *Storage Location*. As different rules can be
applied to different products, you can assign different storage
locations for different products.

Another rule could be: when products arrive at a location, move them to the
*Quality Control Area*. Then, once the quality check is done, move
them to their *Storage Location*.

> .. note::
>       *Push Rules* can be triggered only if no *Pull Rule* pre-generated
>       the upstream transfers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   *Push Rules* can be triggered only if no *Pull Rule* pre-generated
   the upstream transfers.
```

> .. important::
>       Sets of rules like those are called routes. The grouping on the rule
>       defines how products are grouped in the same transfer or not. For
>       example, during the picking operation, all orders are grouped in one
>       transfer, whereas the packing operation respects the grouping per
>       customer order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. important::
   Sets of rules like those are called routes. The grouping on the rule
   defines how products are grouped in the same transfer or not. For
   example, during the picking operation, all orders are grouped in one
   transfer, whereas the packing operation respects the grouping per
   customer order.
```

Use Routes and Rules
====================

Since *Routes* are a collection of *Push and Pull Rules*, Odoo
helps you manage advanced routes configuration such as:

-  Manage product manufacturing chains;
-  Manage default locations per product;
-  Define routes within your warehouse according to business needs, such
   as quality control, after-sales services, or supplier returns;
-  Help rental management by generating automated return moves for
   rented products.

To configure a route such as one of those above, open the **Inventory
Application** and go to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Settings`.
Then, enable the *Multi-Step Routes* feature.

.. image:: media/multi-steps-routes-feature.png
   :align: center
   :alt: activation of the multi-steps feature in Odoo Inventory

> .. note::
>       The *Storage Locations* feature is automatically activated with the
>       *Multi-Step Routes*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   The *Storage Locations* feature is automatically activated with the
   *Multi-Step Routes*.
```

================================
Using Routes and Pull/Push Rules
================================

In inventory management, the supply chain strategy determines when
products should be fabricated, delivered to distribution centers, and
made available in the retail channel.

> This kind of strategic process can be configured using *Routes*,

Author: I checked the "plural". Most of the examples I found are singular :)

> This kind of strategic process can be configured using *Routes*,

Reviewer: Okay, I think it should be good.
But when it comes to grammar, it's better to find rules than examples 😛

> This kind of strategic process can be configured using *Routes*,

Author: If I rely on examples, it's because I don't find any rule about this.

featuring *Pull and Push Rules*. Once everything is properly
configured, the inventory app can automatically generate transfers
following the instructions given by the rules. Yes, Odoo simplifies your
life.

Inside the warehouse
====================

Let’s imagine a generic warehouse plan, where you can find receiving
docks and are, a quality control area, storage locations, picking and

> packing areas, and shipping docks. That is where all the products go

Author: Good point!
Probably a sentence I removed but forgot two words haha

   :align: center
   :alt: view of the route menu when selecting applicable on sales order lines

If you work with this kind of route, it is important to keep in mind
that it must be selected on the sales order, such as below.

.. image:: media/add-routes-to-sales-lines.png
   :align: center
   :alt: view of the menu allowing to add new lines to sales orders

Then, the route can be chosen on each line of the document.

.. image:: media/sales-order-lines-routes-application.png
   :align: center
   :alt: view of the routes added to the sales orders

Finally comes the routes applied to products. Those work more or less
like the product categories. In fact, once selected, you have to
manually set on which product it must be applied.

.. image:: media/applicable-on-products.png
   :align: center
   :alt: view of the menu when selecting applicable on products

To do so, go to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Master Data -->
Products` and open the one on which you want to apply the route. Then
go to the *Inventory tab* and select the route you’ve created.

.. image:: media/on-product-route.png
   :align: center
   :alt: view of a product form, where the route must be selected

> If, prima facie, the routes’ configuration can appear quite easy, don’t

Author: I do prefer "prima facie" :wink:

> If, prima facie, the routes’ configuration can appear quite easy, don’t

Reviewer: me too

:menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration --> Routes`. There, you
can find a *Rules* section featuring a *Add a line* button. Click on
that button.

.. image:: media/add-new-rules.png
   :align: center
   :alt: view of the rules menu, where it is possible to add new rules

The available rules trigger various actions. If Odoo offers *Push* and
*Pull* rules, others are also available. Here are some explanations of
all of them:

-  **Pull From**: this rule is triggered by a need for the product
   in a specific stock location. The need can come from a sale order
   which has been validated or for a manufacturing order which
   requires a specific component. When the need appears in the
   source location, Odoo generates a picking to fulfill this need.

-  **Push To**: this rule is triggered by the arrival of some
   products in the defined source location. In case you move
   products to the source location, Odoo generates a picking to move
   those products to the destination location.

-  **Push & Pull**: it allows to generate pickings in the two
   different situations explained above. It means when products are
   required in a specific source location as well as when they are

>    pushed to a specific source location.

Author: Better? @jcs-odoo

-  **Buy**: when products are needed at the source location, a
   request for quotation is created to fulfill the need.

-  **Manufacture**: when products are needed in the source location,
   a manufacturing order is created to fulfill the need.

.. image:: media/pull-from-rule-stock-to-packing.png
   :align: center
   :alt: overview of a transfer requested between the stock and the packing zone

With the action your rule tiggers comes the *Operation Type*. This
operation allows defining which kind of picking is created from the
rule. With our above screenshot, the created picking is, for example, an
internal transfer.

In the other hand, the *Supply Method*, allows defining what happens at
the source location:

-  **Take From Stock**: the products are taken from the available
   stock of the source location;

-  **Trigger Another Rule**: the system tries to find a stock rule

>    to bring the products in the source location. The available stock

Reviewer: do you mean the products that are currently in the source location?
otherwise, if you mean that the rule adds products to the source location, "in" is incorrect and you should use "to" instead. Also check the last sentence of the next point.

   is ignored.

-  **Take From Stock, if Unavailable, Trigger Another Rule**: the
   products are taken from the available stock of the source
   location. If there is no stock available, the system tries to

>    find a rule to bring the products in the source location.

Reviewer: same as above

In the *Scheduling* section, you can determine how Odoo behaves when

> one of the pickings of the chain is rescheduled. In case you decide to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one of the chain's pickings is rescheduled. In case you decide to
```

**Propagate Rescheduling**, the next move is also to be rescheduled.

> In case you prefer having the choice to manually reschedule the next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer having the choice to manually reschedule the next
```
To vary a bit...

> In case you prefer having the choice to manually reschedule the next
> move, you can decide to receive an alert about it under the form of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you prefer having the choice to reschedule the next move
manually, you can decide to receive an alert in the form of a
```

Reviewer: "of a next activity"
--> might look better if it's in bold or italics. Otherwise, it looks a bit odd.

next activity.

What about a full flow?
=======================

Do you remember our Pick - Pack - Ship custom route? Let’s use it to

> experiment a full flow with an advanced custom route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
try a full flow with an advanced custom route.
```

First, a quick look at our rules and their supply methods: we have three
rules, all **Pull From** rules. The supply methods are the
following:

-  **Take From Stock**: When products are needed in WH/Packing Zone,
   *Picks* (internal transfers from WH/Stock to WH/Packing Zone)
   are created from WH/Stock to fulfill the need.

-  **Trigger Another Rule**: When products are needed in WH/Output,
   *Packs* (internal transfers from WH/Packing Zone to WH/Output)
   are created from WH/Packing Zone to fulfill the need.

-  **Trigger Another Rule**: When products are needed in Partner
   Locations/Customers, Delivery Orders are created from WH/Output
   to fulfill the need.

.. image:: media/transfers-overview.png
   :align: center
   :alt: overview of all the transfers created by the pick - pack - ship route

This means that, when a customer orders products, a delivery order is
created to fulfill the order.

.. image:: media/operations-on-transfers.png
   :align: center
   :alt: view of the operations created by a pull from transfer

> .. note::
>       If the source document is the same sale order, the status is not the
>       same. In fact, the status is **Waiting Another Operation** if the
>       previous transfer in the list is not done yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   If the source document is the same sale order, the status is not the
   same. In fact, the status is **Waiting Another Operation** if the
   previous transfer in the list is not done yet.
```

.. image:: media/waiting-status.png
   :align: center
   :alt: view of the transfers various status at the beginning of the process

To prepare the order, conveyors need products packed at the output area,
so an internal transfer is requested from the packing zone.

.. image:: media/detailed-operations-2.png
   :align: center
   :alt: view of the detailed operations for a transfer between the packing and output zones

Obviously, the packing zone needs products ready to be packed. So, an

> internal transfer is requested to the stock and employees can gather the
> needed products from the warehouse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
internal transfer is requested to the stock, and employees can gather the
required products from the warehouse.
```

.. image:: media/detailed-operations-transfer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: view of the detailed operations for a transfer between the stock and packing zones

> As explained in the documentation introduction, the last step in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As explained in this documentation introduction, the last step in the
```
